Tell me about a time you had to quickly adjust your work priorities to meet changing demands.
What did you do when you needed to motivate a group of individuals?
Give me an example of a time you faced a conflict while working on a team. How did you handle that?
The last time you had to apologize to someone
Describe a long-term project that you managed. How did you keep everything moving along in a timely manner?
Describe a situation when you negotiated with others in your organization to reach an agreement.
Tell me about a time when you received negative feedback from your manager. How did you respond?
Tell me about a time when you missed an obvious solution to a problem
A time when you faced a problem that had multiple possible solutions
Tell me about a time when you were 75% through a project, & you had to pivot strategy to ensure successful delivery
Tell me about a time you had to deal with ambiguity
Tell me about the toughest decision you've had to make in the past six months
What’s the most innovative new idea that you have implemented?
Tell me about a time you stepped up into a leadership role
Describe a time when you sacrificed short term goals for long term success
Tell me about a time when you had to push back to HQ or challenged a decision
We all deal with difficult customers from time to time. Tell me about a challenging client-facing situation and how you handled it.
Tell me about a time when you were not able to meet a time commitment. What prevented you from meeting it? What was the outcome and what did you learn from it?
Tell me about a time you failed and what you learned from it
What's your strength / weakness
Tell me about yourself
Why Amazon
Who was your most challenging customer?
Give me an example of a time when you did not meet a client’s expectation. What happened, and how did you attempt to rectify the situation?
When you’re working with a large number of customers, it’s tricky to deliver excellent service to them all. So how do you go about prioritizing your customers’ needs?
Tell the story of the last time you had to apologize to someone.
Tell me about a time when you had to leave a task unfinished.
Tell me about a time when you had to work on a project with unclear responsibilities.
Tell me about a time when you gave a simple solution to a complex problem.
Tell me about a time when you invented something.
Tell me about a time when you were wrong
Tell me about a time when you had to work with incomplete data or information.
Tell me about a time when you influenced a change by only asking questions.
Tell me about a time when you solved a problem through just superior knowledge or observation.
Tell me about a time when you mentored someone
Tell me about a time when you made a wrong hire. When did you figure it out, and what did you do?
Tell me about a time when you couldn’t meet your own expectations on a project.
Tell me about a time when a team member didn’t meet your expectations on a project.
Tell me about your proudest professional achievement
Tell me about a time when you went way beyond the scope of the project and delivered.
Describe a time when you saw some problem and took the initiative to correct it rather than waiting for someone else to do it
Tell me about a time when you took a calculated risk.
Tell me about a time you needed to get information from someone who wasn’t very responsive. What did you do?
Tell me about a time when you had to work with limited time or resources.
What would you do if you found out that your closest friend at work was stealing?
Tell me about a time when you had to tell someone a harsh truth.
Give me two examples of when you did more than what was required in any job experience.
Tell me about something that you learnt recently in your role.
Tell me about a time when you did not accept the status quo
Tell me about an unpopular decision of yours.
Tell me about a time when you had to step up and disagree with a team member's approach.
If your direct manager was instructing you to do something you disagreed with, how would you handle it?
By providing an example, tell me when you have had to handle a variety of assignments. Describe the results.
What is the most challenging situation you have ever faced in your life? How did you handle it?
Give me an example of a time when you were 75% of the way through a project, and you had to pivot strategy–how were you able to make that into a success story?

Software Development Engineer Specific Leadership Principle Questions:

When did you take a risk, make a mistake or fail? How did you respond?
Tell me about a time you failed. How did you deal with the situation?
Tell me about a time you had a conflict at work.
Tell me about a time when you took the lead on a difficult project
Tell me about a time when you received negative feedback from your manager. How did you respond?
How would you handle a project that is expected to be behind schedule
Describe a time when you received criticism and how you handled it
Tell me about a time you recovered from a difficult situation
Describe the most challenging project you've worked on so far
What is the most difficult decision you ever took in software
Tell me about a time you had to make a decision under pressure to meet a deadline
Tell me about a time when you had to choose between technologies for a project
Tell me about a time when you had to make a judgement call without having time to refer to a manager/supervisor
Give me an example where you strongly held an opinion and you were the outlier
What is the most significant impact of your work inside a team
What is the best invention or idea you had in the past two years?
Tell me about a time you exceeded your expectations
Describe a project that you are particularly proud of. How did it impact your company? What challenges did you encounter and how did you solve them?